[Music]
you're on the forest floor in Costa Rica
and this is a young female
three-fingered sloth
[Music]
after her weekly toilet visit to the
ground she's on her way back up to the
canopy and you may have to look around
to find her as she does so
[Music]
she's expertly and slowly climbing the
tree on the lookout for food and leaves
her favorite thing to eat but she has
particular test
sloths prefer to eat the freshest
greenest leaves the leaves are usually
found right on the end of the highest
branches
now she's on a CicLAvia tree one of her
favorites but there seems to be a
problem and if you look closely on the
tree trunk you'll see hundreds of
Aztecas ants they protect the tree
almost like tiny security guards the
sloths presence has not gone unnoticed
and dozens of ants have climbed aboard
but they won't harm her in fact she may
not even notice with no leaves taking
their fancy it's time to change trees
now where to go from here
she needs to find a strong looking
branch a risky business when you're six
meters of the ground
[Music]
a fall from this height could be fatal
luckily this time the branch was just
about strong enough less than a year old
she still has a bit to learn about
climbing maybe this branch is a bit
sturdier
[Music]
No maybe she's just a thrill seeker
after all that excitement it's probably
time to find some delicious leaves here
we go this looks more like it holding on
by just her back legs she delicately
sniffs the leaves to find the perfect
snack
[Music]
sloths styles consist almost entirely of
leaves which their slow paced metabolism
might take weeks to digest
[Music]
she's had enough
and I shall do what sloths to best find
a safe place and sleep
[Music]
the first she still has a few hands to
get rid of
[Music]
a thick fur means ants are much of a
problem and scratching is also a sign of
sloth contentment there we are a nice
comfy place to rest I think we better
leave it to it
you
[Music]